# MSc-Thesis-RUG-MADS
The effect of reference price on online product returns 
Product returns are a painpoint for retailers, especially in an online context, where trade is constantly booming as a result of factors prominent before, during and after the years of COVID-imposed curfews. Firms are striving between their attempt to serve their customers’ desires at a high level and maintain their financial stability. In fact, product returns result in both dissatisfied customers and financial losses. Returns to the point of sale are increasing and the costs of obtaining, shipping, testing, refurbishing and remarketing returned products can be prohibitive for both manufacturers and retailers. Furthermore, most product returns are not due to product defects, but rather to mismatches with consumer preferences and needs, suggesting that several measures can be taken to reduce the flow of returns. Important drivers of product returns have been studied and identified by researchers (consumer characteristics – Petersen et al, 2009; online customer reviews – Minnema et al, 2016; fee vs no fee return policies – Shehu et al, 2020). Despite these findings, there is still limited research on the impact of price expectations and reference price on product returns. 
What this thesis attempts to resolve is give some initial insights on whether the effect of reference price is something to promote as a predictor of returns, and consequently include it in models of product returns. To that end, the use of two different conceptualizations of reference price has been promoted by the existing literature (Mazumdar et al, 2005; Rajendran et al, 1994). A coming conclusion is that the reference price and price expectations effects are significant, and there is a timely manner remaining from the results that can be used for future researchers who want to dive in the relation of returns with other drivers other than reference price and price expectations.
